---
layout: post
title: IEEE-TSMCA [GRV]
tags: paper, Rank-1
math: true
date: 2021-9-21 00:00 +0800
---
*A Robust Evidential Multi-source Data Fusion Approach Based on Cooperative Game Theory and Its Application in EEG*

## Description

**Title**: A robust evidential multi-source data fusion approach based on cooperative game theory and its application in EEG

**Journal**: *IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics: Systems*

**Abstract**: Multi-source data fusion analysis, particularly in decision-level fusion strategies, is emerging for application in real-life scenarios. A prevalent approach, Dempster-Shafer evidence theory (DSET), is of great significance to manage the uncertainty and imprecision of information fusion tasks. However, the existing fusion approaches have several limitations. Although the problem of conflict management has been extensively studied in the existing literature, some limitations of dealing with redundant information are still not well addressed. Furthermore, the computational complexity of the fusion program will increase exponentially with the number of focal elements in the frame of discernment, which reduces its availability. To address the above problems, a novel evidential multi-source data fusion approach based on game-theoretic analysis is proposed in this paper. Specifically, the Shapley function is introduced to consider the interaction effect of focal elements, which is beneficial to mitigate the negative influence of redundant evidence with high interpretability. In this case, the exponential explosion problem of computational complexity can be alleviated since the required input parameters of the Dempster combination rule (DCR) will decrease to the same level as the approximate Bayesian update model. A specific numerical example with conflicting and redundant evidence is provided. We show that our proposed methodology outperforms existing advanced weighted average-based fusion methods if considering the redundant evidence. In addition, a simulation experiment regarding driver fatigue state identification based on electroencephalography (EEG) signals is conducted to show the effectiveness and practicality of the proposed approach.

**Current State**: Major Revision

**JCR**: Q1

**Impact Factor** (2021): 11.471

**CAA Rank (中国自动化学会评级)**: A

**CCF Rank (中国计算机学会评级)**: B
