---
layout: post
title: IEEE-TASE [DGMR]
tags: preprint, Rank-1
math: true
date: 2022-10-13 00:00 +0800
---
*A Discrimination-guided Active Learning Method With Marginal Representation for Industrial Compound Fault Diagnosis*

## Description

**Title**: A discrimination-guided active learning method with marginal representation for industrial compound fault diagnosis

**Journal**: *IEEE Transactions on Automation Science and Engineering*

**Abstract**: Diagnosis of compound faults is meaningful and challenging in actual industrial applications. Generally, it is impractical to obtain a sufficient amount of labeled data for the compound faults, which limits the performance of existing methods. The characteristics of compound faults should be fully considered. Hence, reasonably introducing prior knowledge of fault information is of great significance to improve the practicability of diagnostic methods. In this paper, several unsupervised representation extraction techniques are firstly exploited to extract the fault information in the latent space, which is beneficial to alleviate the negative effects of noise disturbance in real-life scenarios. A discrimination-guided active learning method based on marginal representations, termed DGMR, is then proposed. In this case, samples with compound fault information are more likely to be iteratively queried for expert annotation. Several experiments are conducted using realistic experimental platform data. The experimental results show that the proposed DGMR can achieve high diagnostic accuracy for industrial compound fault diagnosis with a small number of annotated samples and shallow classifiers.

**Current State**: Major Revision

**JCR**: Q1

**Impact Factor** (2021): 6.636

**CAA Rank (中国自动化学会评级)**: A+

**CCF Rank (中国计算机学会评级)**: B


