---
layout: post
title: EAI-SCUBE [CADM]
tags: paper, Rank-2
math: true
date: 2023-1-1 00:00 +0800
---
*CADM: Confusion Model-based Detection Method for Real-drift in Chunk Data Stream*

## Description

**Title**: CADM: Confusion model for real-drift detection in chunk data streams

**Conference**: *Proceedings of 13th EAI International Conference on Sensor Systems and Software*

**Abstract**: Concept drift detection has attracted considerable attention due to its importance in many real-world applications such as health monitoring and fault diagnosis. Conventionally, most advanced approaches will be of poor performance when the evaluation criteria of the environment has changed (i.e. concept drift), either can only detect and adapt to virtual drift. In this paper, we propose a new approach to detect real-drift in the chunk data stream with limited annotations based on concept confusion. When a new data chunk arrives, we use both real labels and pseudo labels to update the model after prediction and drift detection. In this context, the model will be confused and yields prediction difference once drift occurs. We then adopt cosine similarity to measure the difference. And an adaptive threshold method is proposed to find the abnormal value. Experiments show that our method has a low false alarm rate and false negative rate with the utilization of different classifiers. 

**Current State**: Accepted

**Compendex**: EI Compendex

### Citation

```
S. Hu, Z. Liu, X. He. CADM: Confusion Model-based Detection Method for Real-drift in Chunk Data Stream, Proceedings of 13th EAI International Conference on Sensor Systems and Software, 2022, in Dec., Dalian, Liaoning, China.
```

```
@article{hu2023cadm,
  title={CADM: Confusion Model-based Detection Method for Real-drift in Chunk Data Stream},
  author={Hu, Songqiao and Liu, Zeyi and He, Xiao},
  journal={arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.16906},
  year={2023}
}
```
