---
layout: post
title: P06 — [CADM+]
tags: preprint, Rank-2
math: true
date: 2023-6-3 00:00 +0800
---

*CADM+: Confusion-based Learning Framework with Drift Detection and Adaptation for Chunk-level Real-time Safety Assessment*

## Description

**Title**: CADM+: confusion-based learning framework with drift detection and adaptation for chunk-level real-time safety assessment

**Abstract**: Real-time safety assessment (RTSA) has become a topic of great interest in recent years due to the complex and rapidly changing nature of data streams. To address this issue, a novel chunk-level and confusion-based learning framework with drift detection and adaptation, called CADM+, is proposed in this paper. When drift occurs, the model is updated with uncertain samples, which may cause confusion between existing and new concepts, resulting in performance differences. To measure the degree of conceptual confusion in the model, cosine similarity is used. Furthermore, the change of standard deviation within a fixed-size cosine similarity window is introduced as an indicator for drift detection. Theoretical demonstrations show the asymptotic increasing and approximate independence of cosine similarity and the change of standard deviation with the number of trained samples, respectively. Finally, extreme value theory is applied to determine the threshold of judging drifts. The proposed framework is evaluated on the realistic data of JiaoLong deep-sea manned submersible and several benchmark datasets, which demonstrates its effectiveness. Experimental results also prove that the proposed framework is more suitable for RTSA tasks compared to state-of-the-art algorithms.